
Heat 1/4 c oil in a 12-inch skillet over high heat. Add 3 sliced onions and a 
bay leaf, and cook, stirring frequently, until softened and browned in spots, 
12-20 minutes. (Reduce heat if the pan starts to scorch.) Lower heat to medium,
and stir in 1 1/2 tsp coriander, 1 tsp ground cumin, a pinch cayenne and 1/4 
tsp salt; cook 1 more minute. Transfer half the onions to a bowl and reserve 
(leave the bay leaf in the skillet).

Add 3 cloves minced garlic, 1 tsp cumin seeds, 1 tsp pepper and 1/8 tsp 
allspice to the skillet, and stir. Cook until fragrant, about 1 minute. Pour 
in the tomatoes, then fill the empty tomato can with water and pour into the 
skillet. Add 2 tbsp oil and 1 tsp salt, and bring the mixture to a simmer. 
Simmer until thickened, about 20 minutes. Taste, and add more salt and cayenne 
if you like. Remove bay leaf.

As the mixture cooks, heat oven to 400 F and bring a large pot of salted water 
to a boil. Add 1 lb pasta and cook until just about 2 minutes shy of al dente. 
Reserve 1 c pasta water, and drain pasta.

Stir pasta, reserved pasta water, and 3/4 c chopped parsley or cilantro into 
skillet with tomato sauce. Top with reserved browned onions, 8 oz grated 
Cheddar, and 1/2 c grated Parmesan. Transfer to oven and bake until golden and 
bubbly, 20 to 25 minutes. If you like, you can run the pan under the broil to 
brown the top, or leave it as is. Let cool slightly, top with more parsley, if 
desired, and serve with hot sauce, if you like.


Ingredients:
6 tbsp extra-virgin olive oil
3 large onions, thinly sliced
1 large bay leaf
1 1/2 tsp ground coriander
1 tsp ground cumin
Pinch of cayenne, plus more to taste
1 1/4 tsp fine sea salt, plus more as needed
3 cloves garlic, minced
1 tsp cumin seeds
1 tsp black pepper
1/8 tsp ground allspice
1 (15-oz) can whole peeled plum tomatoes
1 lb small pasta, such as rotini or shells
3/4 c chopped parsley or cilantro (or use a combination of cilantro and parsley), plus more for serving
8 oz shredded Cheddar
1/2 c grated Parmesan
Hot sauce, for serving (optional)
