
Place 240 g flour, 1 1/2 tsp salt, 1 tsp yeast, 1 tbsp olive oil, and 170 g 
water in a large bowl. Stir everything together to make a shaggy, sticky mass
of dough with no dry patches of flour - this should take about 1 minute by 
hand. Scrape down the sides of the bowl and form it into a rough ball; cover
the bowl. 

After 5 minutes, uncover the bowl. Reach your hand under the dough and stretch 
the bottom of the dough up and over the top. Repeat all the way around the 
ball, then cover the bowl again. Repeat this fold four times total, waiting 
five minutes between each. After the fourth fold, cover the bowl and let the 
dough rest undisturbed for 40 minutes. Then refrigerate for at least 12 hours 
and no more than 72 hours. 

About 3 hours before you serve your pizza: prepare your pan. Pour 1 1/2 tbsp 
olive oil into a cast iron skillet (about 9" across the bottom but it's not 
that crucial). Spread the oil across the bottom and up the sides of the pan.

Transfer the dough to the pan and turn it once to coat both sides with oil. 
Press the dough to the edges of the pan, dimpling it with the tips of your 
fingers. If the dough reacts and shrinks back, cover it and let it sit for 
about 15 minutes to relax, then come back and dimple and press it again.

About 30 minutes before baking, place one rack at the bottom of the oven and 
one toward the top (about 4"-5" from the top element). Preheat the oven to 450 
F.

When you're ready to bake the pizza, sprinkle a scant 1 c grated mozzarella 
evenly over the crust. Cover the entire crust, all the way to the edge; this 
will make crispy caramelized edges. Dollop small spoonfuls of sauce over the 
cheese. Sprinkle the remaining few tablespoons of mozzarella over the sauce.

Bake the pizza on the bottom rack for 18-20 minutes, until the cheese is 
bubbling and the bottom and edges of the crust are a rich golden brown. If the 
bottom is brown but the top is still pale, move it to the top rack for 2-4 more
minutes. 

Remove the pizza from the oven and place the pan on a heatproof surface. Run a 
knife or spatula between the edge of the pizza and the pan to keep the cheese 
from sticking as it cools. Let the pizza cool only briefly before transferring 
to a cooling rack; this will keep the crust from becoming soggy. Sprinkle the 
pizza with freshly grated Parmesan or fresh herbs before slicing. 

Serve the pizza anywhere from hot to warm. Use kitchen scissors or a pizza 
cutter to slice the pizza. 


Ingredients:
240 g all-purpose flour
3/4 tsp salt
1/2 tsp instant or active dry yeast
170 g water, room temperature
2 1/2 tbsp olive oil
6 oz mozzarella cheese, grated
1/3-1/2 c tomato sauce
freshly grated Parmesan
fresh herbs (basil, oregano) (optional)
