
Heat oven to 350 F. Put 2 tbsp butter in a large skillet or Dutch oven over 
medium-high heat. Add 1 diced onion and season with salt and pepper. Cook, 
stirring occasionally, until softened and beginning to color, 5-7 minutes.

Split 4 leeks lengthwise and cut into 1" pieces. Add leeks and a little more 
salt to the onions and stir to combine. Cook mixture for about 5 minutes more,
until leeks have lost their crunch but are still green. Turn off heat.

Quarter 1 lb brown mushrooms, and slice 1/2 lb shiitake mushrooms to 1/4" 
thick. Cook them separate from the onions (work in batches if necessary): Put 
2 tbsp olive oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat. When the oil is 
wavy, add both kinds of mushrooms and sauté 2-3 minutes, until lightly browned.
Season with salt and pepper. Turn off heat and stir in 2 tsp thyme, 2 cloves 
garlic, and 2 tbsp parsley, and toss to coat.

Add mushrooms to onion-leek mixture, and turn heat to medium-high. Add 2 tbsp 
miso and 2 c milk and bring to a simmer. Stir 2 tbsp cornstarch into 2 tbsp 
cold water, add to mixture, and simmer for 2 minutes, stirring, until sauce 
thickens. Transfer mixture to a 9" x 13" baking dish and leave at room 
temperature.

Meanwhile, peel 3 lb potatoes, cut in 2" chunks, and boil in salted water until
very soft, about 15 minutes. Drain potatoes and mash with 4 tbsp butter, then 
stir in 1/2 c cream and beat until smooth. Season with salt and pepper.

Spread mashed potatoes evenly over surface of vegetable mixture. Sprinkle with 
1 c bread crumbs and dot with 2 tbsp butter. Bake for 45 minutes, until bubbling 
and nicely browned.

Ingredients
2 tbsp unsalted butter
1 large onion, diced
Salt and pepper
4 medium leeks, tender green and white parts, split lengthwise and cut in 1-inch pieces
2 tbsp olive oil
1 lb medium-brown or white mushrooms, quartered
1/2 lb shiitake mushrooms, caps only, sliced ¼-inch thick
2 tsp chopped fresh thyme
2 small garlic cloves, minced
2 tbsp chopped parsley
2 tbsp white miso (optional)
2 c whole milk
2 tbsp cornstarch, dissolved in 2 tbsp cold water
3 lb russet or yellow-fleshed potatoes
6 tbsp unsalted butter
1/2 c heavy cream
Salt and pepper
1 c coarse dry bread crumbs
